Now that we have our header the next thing we're going to build is our sign in page.
Now if we look at our finished application and we look at the sign and page we see that there is a sign
up section and a sign in section.
They're quite similar with their own custom form input component and a custom button component so before
we attach any of the functionality to this component let's take a look at what functionality we have
available so we can actually sign and using an email and password and that signing is going to be based
off of the accounts that we're signing up using this form.
So if a new user signs up using this form we are able to sign in with that account.
Alternatively if this step is too extensive then we can just sign in with Google and by using sign on
with Google we load any Gmail accounts at the user is currently logged into or they can add another
Gmail account and log in that way and authenticate into our application with very minimal effort.
So let's begin how do we build this.
Well first let's just set up the page.
So let's go back to our application and let's build a sign in and sign up page so let's create our folder
sign in and sign
let's copy that text because we are going to have to write this twice Dow component dot Jeff Sachs and
then also dot Stiles says.
Now we just have to import in all of the usual things that we always have to including our style sheet
and then we are going to use a functional component here.
And the reason we're going to use a functional component and not a state full class component is because
we're going to keep all of that on our sign in and sign up components respectively and then we will
just write sign in for now support default support our component and now import it into our app J.S.
help.
These are leftovers that we don't need from our import so let's pages and now let's duplicate its root
for sign in using our new component now if we navigate to an we see our page.
So now let's build our sign in component first before we bill our sign up component.
Now the reason we're going to build our signing component first is because we're going to set up our
fire base database in the next section and that is what we're going to use in order to handle any of
our authentication as well as signing up users.
So signing is easier to explain if we do it with firebase first and I'll show you why so let's first
just make our files son and styles dot SAS and for our sign in we are going to use
a class component because we have to store what the users typing in.
So let's do class sign in x component and in our constructor we are going to need access to state and
on our state.
What we're going to store is an empty string for email and an empty string for a password in our render.
We are going to return a div that contains our entire sign in component
and in it will be an H H2 for the title so here.
We're going to say I already have an account and then let's use a span for our subtext where we will
say sign in with your e-mail password
awesome.
Now for actual form we're gonna use a native form element and in it.
So we have custom components here that we're not going to use yet.
We're going to code those out later but first I'm just going to put in an input with a name of email
and a value of email.
This does state.
Email and then I'm going to set required to be true.
And then we're going to add a label that says email and we're gonna repeat this twice so that this one
will say password.
This one's type will be email as well.
And this one's type will be password
and then at the end we will have a input with a type of submit
and here we will all set the value to be submit for let's export this out as the default.
So this is all just very basic setup for now.
Right.
We don't actually have any of the bindings to the code but what we're gonna need to add is we are going
to add on our form an on submit function that calls our method handle submit which for now will simply
prevent the default submit action from firing because we want full control over exactly what this summit
is going to do.
But for now what we'll do is we will prevent it and then we will clear out our fields.
So we'll set our email and our password back to an empty string and that's what we will pass.
Here handle submit and ask for our actual inputs what we're gonna do is we are going to set a on change
value two point two are on handle or so our handle change function which also again takes an event except
for this we are going to pull both the value and the name off of our event dot target the event target
will end up being our input element itself and we want the name value that we just set as well as the
actual value on that target that they've just typed in and what we're going to do is we're going to
dynamically set our state so that it sets that name.
So it'll render whatever that value that comes in will be if name is password.
It will say password and then point to the value that they typed in and then the same will apply for
email if it's the email then this event targets dot name will be email and then that value will be what
they're typing in there.
So this way we can pass the same function in to the same input and this is awesome because we don't
have to write separate functions that do pretty much the same thing by dynamically setting our property
value.
Now let's import this into our sign and Page sign in from opponents sign in and let's just render this
out and take a look.
Awesome.
So there we go there is our form we hit our submit form it clears the fields exactly what we're looking
for.
Okay now let's actually style this and attach the functionality.